docs(website): add first draft of user permissions (#1292)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/main-concepts/user-permissions.mdx

title: User Permissions
---

The Merchant Center allows configuring permissions based on a user’s team. Each teams belong to one organization. While each organization can have as numerous teams and a user can belong to multiple teams across one or different organizations.

More information about the [User Permission Concepts](https://docs.commercetools.com/merchant-center/user-permissions.html).

# Types of permissions

The Merchant Center loads and provides different types of permissions to be used within a Custom Application.

> ## General permissions

Author: Fair question. I felt that in wording, also with @adnasa and the Context Team, general permission becomes a more reasonable wording to use externally. As action rights and stores (or any data fence) are also targetted at a resource. As a result the word can be ambigous with other permissions even if e.g. our database calls them that. Saying that I found general permission, action rights and data fences to complement each other better. Open for suggestions obvious.

General permissions are bound to a resource and grant either view or manage  access. Whenever a user has manage access the respective view access is granted implicitly.

A general permission is represented as a `String` with a prefix of `View` or `Manage`, followed by one of the following resource names:

- `Products`
- `Categories`
- `Customers`
- `CustomerGroups`
- `Orders`
- `ProductDiscounts`
- `CartDiscounts`
- `DiscountCodes`
- `ProjectSettings`
- `ProductTypes`
- `DeveloperSettings`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Some examples are: `ViewProducts`, `ManageOrders`, etc.

```

## Action rights

> Action rights can be used to constrain a granted general permission. As manage access to products can be limited by not allowing publishing of products for a team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action rights can be used to refine the general permissions. For example, manage access to products can be limited to exclude publishing.
```

> An action right is represented as an object with the shape `{ group: string, name: string }`. The `group` relates to the permission while the `name` is the action right itself. Currently the following action rights for the `group: 'products'` exist:

Reviewer: Q: should we also include`value`?

Author: I wouldn't no - at least how I understand it. I think it's internal and also not exposed [ref](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/master/packages/permissions/src/utils/has-permissions.ts#L12).

> - `PublishProducts`

Reviewer: Should we maybe put those into a table, so that it's easier to group and document other action rights (e.g. orders)?

Author: Yes, but orders is not public yet. I'd also be careful with making them public with a slight delay. Once we have more, jest we should have a table. It's a general question to how this integrates into feature/documentation processes.

Reviewer: Makes sense 👌

- `UnpublishProducts`
- `AddPrices`
- `EditPrices`
- `DeletePrices`
- `DeleteProducts`
- `AddProducts`

# Using configured permissions within a Custom Application

> The [`permissions`](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/master/packages/permissions/README.md)-package should be used to integrate configured permissions within a Custom Application. It offers React components, higher-order component and a hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`@commercetools-frontend/permissions`](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/master/packages/permissions/README.md) package should be used to implement and apply the user permissions for the specific parts of the Custom Applications. The package exposes React components and React hooks to make it easy to work with it:
```

- `useIsAuthorized()`
- `injectAuthorized()`
- `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

## `useIsAuthorized(options)`

> A React hook to evaluate passed in demanded permissions against the applied ones for the user's team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React hook that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and returns a `boolean` value. Only the demanded permissions need to be explicitly provided, the user permissions are implicitly read from the application context.
```

> ### Supported arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Supported named arguments
```

> - `demandedPermissions`: an array of `Permission`, requested for the child component to

Reviewer: > for the child component

There is no child component for the hook, we should remove that part.

```suggestion
- `demandedPermissions`: an array of [general permissions](#general-permissions)
```

  be allowed to render
- `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of action rights

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Usage

```

```jsx
import { PERMISSIONS } from './constants/permissions.js';

const ExampleComponent = () => {
  const canManageProducts = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts],
  });

  return <span>{ canManageProducts ? 'Authorized' : 'Not authorized' }</span>;
};
```

## `injectAuthorized(permissions, [options])`

> A React higher-order component to inject the evaluation of demanded permission against the applied ones into a base component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React higher-order component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and injects the result as a component prop (default to `isAuthorized`).
```

### Supported arguments

> - `permissions`: an array of demanded general permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `demandedPermissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
```

- `options` (_optional_)

>   - `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of action rights - if passed both, general permissions and action rights needs to be applied to the user's team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `propName`: (_optional_) the name of the injected prop (default to `isAuthorized`).

```

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Usage

```jsx
```

const InputField = props => (
  <Input
    disabled={!props.isAuthorized}
  />
);

export default injectAuthorized([PERMISSIONS.ViewProducts])(
  InputField
);
```

## `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

> A React component which renders its children if the demanded permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and renders the result as a function with the a named argument `isAuthorized`.
```

match, otherwise the passed fallback component.

### Supported props

> - `permissions`: an array of demanded general permissions

Reviewer: FYI: all bullet points should end with a dot `.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `permissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
```

> - `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of demanded action rights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of demanded [action rights](#action-rights).
```

> - `unauthorizedComponent`: (_optional_) a function return an React element to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unauthorizedComponent`: (_optional_) a React component instance to be rendered in case the evaluation of the permissions returns `false`.
```

  rendered in case the permissions do not match

> - `render`: (_optional_) a function returning an React element or a node to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `render`: (_optional_) a render prop function that should return a React node. The function is called with the named boolean argument `isAuthorized`.
```

Same for the `children` prop

  rendered in case the permissions match
  - Note: when a function is passed it gets invoked with an object
    containing `isAuthorized` for example `({ isAuthorized }) => <div />`
- `children`: (_optional_) a function returning an React element or a node to be
  rendered in case the permissions match
  - Note: when a function is passed it is invoked with an object
    containing `isAuthorized` for example `({ isAuthorized }) => <div />`

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Usage

```jsx
```

<RestrictedByPermissions permissions={[PERMISSIONS.ManageOrders]} unauthorizedComponent={Unauthorized}>
  <MyAuthorizedComponent />
</RestrictedByPermissions>

<RestrictedByPermissions permissions={[PERMISSIONS.ManageOrders]}
  {({ isAuthorized }) => <button disabled={!isAuthorized}>My button</button>}
</RestrictedByPermissions>
```

> # Recommendations when working with permissions

Reviewer: Keep it shorter maybe?

```suggestion
# Best practices
```

## Using a file with constants

> It is recommended to store general permissions and action rights used by your application into a `permissions.js` file.

Reviewer: We should explain **why** we recommend it to do it this way.

```js
export const ACTION_RIGHTS = {
  PublishProducts: { group: 'products', name: 'PublishProducts' },
};
export const PERMISSIONS = {
  ManageOrders: 'ManageOrders'
}
```

## Evaluate permissions separately

> It is recommended to evaluate each permission separately even if the respective APIs allow specifying an array of general permissions and action rights.

Reviewer: Same here, we should explain **why** we recommend to do so

```js
// Instead of
const canManageProductsAndViewOrders = useIsAuthorized({
  demandedPermissions: {PERMISSIONS.ViewOrders, PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts},
});

// Apply the hook twice...
const canManageProducts = useIsAuthorized({
  demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts],
});
const canViewOrders = useIsAuthorized({
  demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ViewOrders],
});
// ...and compose the resulting booleans
const canManageProductsAndViewOrders = canManageProducts && canViewOrders;
```

## Co-locate all evaluations in a shared module

It is recommended to create a shared module containing a React hook, component, or higher-order component to share all permission evaluations across your application.

> 1. It helps not to spread similar configuration across multiple components

Reviewer: Nit: all bullet points should end with a dot `.`

2. Decreases the likelihood of silent bugs due to false configurations
3. Allows changes in your configuration to easily propagate through your application

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, define a React hook `usePermissions` that includes evaluations of different permissions used across the application.

```js
```

const usePermissions = () => {
  const canManageProducts = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts],
  });
  const canViewOrders = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ViewOrders],
  });
  const canPublishProducts = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageOrders],
    demandedActionRights: [ACTION_RIGHTS.PublishProducts],
  });

  return {
    canManageProducts,
    canViewOrders,
    canPublishProducts,
  }
}
```

This React hook can then be used across an entire Custom Application.

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

> const { canManageProducts } = usePermissions();

Reviewer: This should go inside the component 😅

- `Products`
- `Categories`
- `Customers`
- `CustomerGroups`
- `Orders`
- `ProductDiscounts`
- `CartDiscounts`
- `DiscountCodes`
- `ProjectSettings`
- `ProductTypes`
- `DeveloperSettings`

## Action rights

Action rights can be used to constrain a granted general permission. As manage access to products can be limited by not allowing publishing of products for a team.

An action right is represented as an object with the shape `{ group: string, name: string }`. The `group` relates to the permission while the `name` is the action right itself. Currently the following action rights for the `group: 'products'` exist:

- `PublishProducts`
- `UnpublishProducts`
- `AddPrices`
- `EditPrices`
- `DeletePrices`
- `DeleteProducts`
- `AddProducts`

# Using configured permissions within a Custom Application

The [`permissions`](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/master/packages/permissions/README.md)-package should be used to integrate configured permissions within a Custom Application. It offers React components, higher-order component and a hook.

- `useIsAuthorized()`
- `injectAuthorized()`

> - `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

Author: We don't document the full API of the permissions package. However, that is also intended as some components are a bit "out-of-fashion" (like branchOnPermissions) and we should educate more about our recent best practices here instead of being complete. At least that's how I saw things when writing them up.

## `useIsAuthorized(options)`

A React hook to evaluate passed in demanded permissions against the applied ones for the user's team.

### Supported arguments

- `demandedPermissions`: an array of `Permission`, requested for the child component to
  be allowed to render

> - `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of action rights

Author: This is also not documenting data fences yet. I would do that in another step to not have this initial PR too big.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights)
```

> title: User Permissions

Reviewer 2: In the index menu (as far as I understood) just three menu levels are allowed. The index menu looks a bit weird. 

@nkuehn: Am I right that there is one level too much displayed? 
In general I would vote for some additional changes:
- Level one (1.) should have the same type size like level two (2.). 
- A bigger spacing before level two is necessary to help the reader to see what belongs together.
![Index Menu](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58512719/73645845-66075d80-4678-11ea-9bd5-a03b5286342b.png)

Reviewer 3: @adinakleine  let's try to keep design spacing optimizations out of content PRs - they have to happen in the docs kit repository anyways. 

"Level 1" is not a heading level but the page title which can be there only once and is derived from the name the page has in the main navigation (or the title frontmatter if the page does not have a main menu entry.)

Author: Thanks for the explanation. I removed all apart from one occurance of the h1.

---

The Merchant Center allows configuring permissions based on a user’s team. Teams belong to an organization and users can be member of multiple teams.

See [User Permission Concepts](https://docs.commercetools.com/merchant-center/user-permissions.html) for more information about the relationships between users, teams, and organizations.

# Types of permissions

The Merchant Center exposes different types of user permissions that are bound to a project and can be used within a Custom Application code. For example, to restrict access to a view, to prevent updating or deleting certain resources, etc.

## General permissions

General permissions are bound to a resource and grant either **view** or **manage** access.

<Info>

A manage access always implies view access as well.

> </Info>

Reviewer 2: I assume that everybody has view access. Right?

Suggestion:
General permissions are bound to a resource and always imply view access. Additionally to **view** access, the **manage** access allows to perform ... *fill in what the manage access differentiates from view access*

Author: No. View access is also something which needs to be explicitely configured.

- `injectAuthorized()`
- `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

## `useIsAuthorized(options)`

A React hook that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and returns a `boolean` value. Only the demanded permissions need to be explicitly provided, the user permissions are implicitly read from the application context.

### Supported named arguments

- `demandedPermissions`: an array of [general permissions](#general-permissions).
- `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights).

### Usage

```jsx
import { PERMISSIONS } from './constants/permissions.js';

const ExampleComponent = () => {
  const canManageProducts = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts],
  });

  return <span>{ canManageProducts ? 'Authorized' : 'Not authorized' }</span>;
};
```

## `injectAuthorized(permissions, [options])`

A React higher-order component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and injects the result as a component prop (default to `isAuthorized`).

### Supported arguments

- `demandedPermissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
- `options` (_optional_)

>   - `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights).

Author: Hm. I understand the intend but from a "code-perspective" the mentioned `actionRights` is an entry under `options`. So whenever somebody would pass in the argument in code it would look like `{ options: { actionRights: {} } }` from a nesting perspective. I feel if I would level up the bullet point it gives the false impression that there is no nesting in the options. Does that make sense? Would you still suggest to level it up?

- `propName`: (_optional_) the name of the injected prop (default to `isAuthorized`).

### Usage

```jsx
const InputField = props => (
  <Input
    disabled={!props.isAuthorized}
  />
);

export default injectAuthorized([PERMISSIONS.ViewProducts])(
  InputField
);
```

## `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

A React component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and renders the result as a function with the named argument `isAuthorized`.

### Supported props

- `permissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
- `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of demanded [action rights](#action-rights).
- `unauthorizedComponent`: (_optional_) a React component instance to be rendered in case the evaluation of the permissions returns `false`.

>   rendered in case the permissions do not match

Reviewer: @adinakleine when you review a PR there is a "suggestion" button that you can use to amend something on that specific line.

<img width="647" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1110551/73730198-b1804100-4736-11ea-9ced-ae7d3f711a6d.png">

The comment will then contain the suggestion which visually displays a diff 

<img width="537" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1110551/73730453-1045ba80-4737-11ea-8313-26127f62de54.png">

An action right is represented as an object with the shape `{ group: string, name: string }`. The `group` relates to the permission while the `name` is the action right itself. Currently the following action rights for the `group: 'products'` exist:

- `PublishProducts`
- `UnpublishProducts`
- `AddPrices`
- `EditPrices`
- `DeletePrices`
- `DeleteProducts`
- `AddProducts`

# Using configured permissions within a Custom Application

The [`@commercetools-frontend/permissions`](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/master/packages/permissions/README.md) package should be used to implement and apply the user permissions for the specific parts of the Custom Applications. The package exposes React components and React hooks to make it easy to work with it:

- `useIsAuthorized()`
- `injectAuthorized()`
- `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

## `useIsAuthorized(options)`

A React hook that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and returns a `boolean` value. Only the demanded permissions need to be explicitly provided, the user permissions are implicitly read from the application context.

### Supported named arguments

> - `demandedPermissions`: an array of [general permissions](#general-permissions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `demandedPermissions`: an array of [general permissions](#general-permissions).
```

>   be allowed to render

Reviewer: Remove this line 

```suggestion
```

> - `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `demandedAtionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights).

```

### Usage

```jsx
import { PERMISSIONS } from './constants/permissions.js';

const ExampleComponent = () => {
  const canManageProducts = useIsAuthorized({
    demandedPermissions: [PERMISSIONS.ManageProducts],
  });

  return <span>{ canManageProducts ? 'Authorized' : 'Not authorized' }</span>;
};
```

## `injectAuthorized(permissions, [options])`

A React higher-order component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and injects the result as a component prop (default to `isAuthorized`).

### Supported arguments

- `demandedPermissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
- `options` (_optional_)
  - `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of [action rights](#action-rights).
- `propName`: (_optional_) the name of the injected prop (default to `isAuthorized`).

### Usage

```jsx
const InputField = props => (
  <Input
    disabled={!props.isAuthorized}
  />
);

export default injectAuthorized([PERMISSIONS.ViewProducts])(
  InputField
);
```

## `<RestrictedByPermissions>`

> A React component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and renders the result as a function with the a named argument `isAuthorized`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React component that evaluates the demanded permissions against the user permissions and renders the result as a function with the named argument `isAuthorized`.
```

> match, otherwise the passed fallback component.

Reviewer: Remove this line

```suggestion
```

### Supported props

- `permissions`: an array of demanded [general permissions](#general-permissions).
- `actionRights`: (_optional_) an array of demanded [action rights](#action-rights).
- `unauthorizedComponent`: (_optional_) a React component instance to be rendered in case the evaluation of the permissions returns `false`.
  rendered in case the permissions do not match

> - `render`: (_optional_) a render prop function that should return a React node. The function is called with the named boolean argument `isAuthorized`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `render`: (_optional_) a render prop function that should return a React node. The function is called with the named boolean argument `isAuthorized`.
- `children`: (_optional_) a render prop function that should return a React node. The function is called with the named boolean argument `isAuthorized`.
```

Remove the rest of the bullet points below

  rendered in case the permissions match
  - Note: when a function is passed it gets invoked with an object
    containing `isAuthorized` for example `({ isAuthorized }) => <div />`
- `children`: (_optional_) a function returning an React element or a node to be
  rendered in case the permissions match
  - Note: when a function is passed it is invoked with an object
    containing `isAuthorized` for example `({ isAuthorized }) => <div />`

### Usage

```jsx
<RestrictedByPermissions permissions={[PERMISSIONS.ManageOrders]} unauthorizedComponent={Unauthorized}>
  <MyAuthorizedComponent />
</RestrictedByPermissions>

<RestrictedByPermissions permissions={[PERMISSIONS.ManageOrders]}
  {({ isAuthorized }) => <button disabled={!isAuthorized}>My button</button>}
</RestrictedByPermissions>
```

# Best practices

## Using a file with constants

> It is recommended to store general permissions and action rights used by your application into a `permissions.js` file. This helps to avoid repeating permission names across your code base. Preventing typographical errors while giving an overview of used permissions in an application easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to store general permissions and action rights used by your application into a `permissions.js` file. This helps to avoid repeating permission names across your code base and preventing typographical errors while giving an overview of used permissions in an application easily.
```
